https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QKfk7YFILws

TCP/IP (5 layers)

Physical Layer (10 Base T, 802.11, Hubs )
->
Data Link Layer ( Ethernet , Wifi, Switches )
->
Network Layer (IP) ( For routing ..how to reach from A to B)
->z
Transport Layer (TCP/UDP) .. Where app to send to...Fb data to Fb and gmail data to gmail
->
Application Layer  (HTTP, SMTP) ( Where data gets displayed )


1.) CABLES

Two types of cables:-
    1.) Copper Cables[Uses Electrical Voltages to transmit data]
    (cat5(Older), cat5e, cat6) (category) twisted pairs inside the cables determine the type and speed with
    which the data is transferred
    2.) Fiber Cables [Uses pulse of light to transmit data]- Costly

2.) Hubs and Switches
    Hub is "physical layer device" that allows for connections from many computers at once
    A hub causes a
    "Collision Domain" :  A network segment where only one device can communicate at a time
    Thats why its not used today....


    Network Switch (Data Link Layer Device):
    It can inspect the data of the ethernet protocol data and then knows where to send the data hence reduces a collison domains


Hubs and switches are the primary devices used to connect computers on a single network usually referred to as LAN
but what if we want to send the data to the computers on the other computers on a different network...The ans is

ROUTERS [Network Layer] : A device that knows how to forward data between independent networks
It can inspect network layer data (IP) to decide where to send the data

The main job of the router is to take the data present inside one network and feed it to the ISP
now the ISP takes this data and another router works from here.

this is the backbone of the Internet

This ISP routers now have to make a lot of decision on how to send the data, paths etc

These routers are connected to many other routers and they communicate via Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)
using BGP - Routers share data with each other via this protocol which lets them learn about the most optimal
paths to forward traffic



* SERVERS and CLIENTS

Any node can either be server or client or BOTH


1.) THE PHYSICAL LAYER
    Its main aim is to move 1s and 0s from one end of the link to the next

    the way the data is transmitted is by modulation
    Modulation is a way of varying the voltage of this charge moving across the cable

    The CN version of this is Line Coding

    SENDER --->  Digital Data (0101010111010000110) ---> ENCODER ---||----|| ----||--- DECODER(0101010111010000110) ----- RECEIVER

    10 billion 1s and 0s get transmitted every second

TWISTED PAIR Cabling and DUPLEXING

Twisted pair cables are twisted in order to avoid the electro magnetic interference and cross talk

These cables allows for duplex communication

Duplex Communication :- Info can flow in both direction across the cable
Simplex is unidirection
Full Duplex - Both talking at the same time...
Half Duplx - Takes turn while talking... one at a time


Network Ports and Patch Panels:

RJ45 plug ( lan cable that we see)
RJ45 - Registered Jack 45  (lan port)

the port has 2 lights
1.) Link Light (yellow) [when the cable is properly connected to 2 devices that are both powered ON]
2.) Activity Light  (green) [When the data is being transmitted]


2.) DATA LINK LAYER
ETHERNET and MAC Address

Ethernet is the protocol used to send data across the links

The main job of data link layer that it make sures that the other layers above it don't have to worry about
which cables , connections etc are being used in the physical layer

A browser does not need to know about how the device is connected to the internet

Ethernet is OLD - 1980 ..1983

back then there were no switches or hubs
so how the collision domains were resolved ?
    "Collision Domain" :  A network segment where only one device can communicate at a time
    Thats why its not used today....
    This is because all data is send to all the nodes connected to it...this can result in collison in eletrical current.

Ethernet solved this by
CSMA/CD : Carrier Sends multiple access / with collision detection
Its used to determine when the communication channel are clear and when a device is free to transmit data

If a computer wants to send a data it checks if someone else is not sending the data
if yes then it waits for a random amount of time before sending the data again.

NOW as the data is being transmitted to each and every node..so how do we know the actual node for which the data is meant for.
for that we use.
** MAC Media Access Control Address : A globally unique identifier attached to an individual network interface
    Its a 48 bit number represented by 6 grouping of 2 hexadecimal numbers.

......../......../......../......../......../......../......../......../
HEXADECIMAL - 16 digits [1-9 A-F]
Octet -  Any number that can be represented by 8 bits


The MAC address is divided as

Organizationally Unique Identifier - OUI
First three octets of a MAC Address

OUI
Size in bits : 24
Size in hex digits : 6 hex digits ( 1 octet = 2 Hex )
Example - 00 60 2F
Structure - Cisco

Vendor Assigned (NIC cards ,Interfaces )
Size in bits : 24
Size in hex digits : 6 hex digits ( 1 octet = 2 Hex )
Example - 3A 07 BC
Structure - Particular Device


So Ethernet uses MAC addresses of both the sender and receiver


UNICAST , MULTICAST and BROADCAST [38:01]

Unicast - Is always meant for just one receiving address

At ethernet level this is done by looking at a special bit at the destination MAC Address
If the least significant bit in the first octet of a destination address is set to "zero", IT
means that ethernet frame is intended for only the destination address.

that is, it will be sent to all but received only by one


MULTICAST-
If the least significant bit in the first octet of a destination address is set to "ONE", IT
means that ethernet frame is intended for multiple destination address.

BROADCAST -Received by Every Single Device using broadcast address
Broadcast Address - FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF

Data Packet - An all encompassing term that represents any single set of binary data being sent across a network link
